1. Are you atheists?

No, many of our congregation are, but it is not required or officially promoted, NeoPastafarianism 
is concerned more with activism promoting secularism in politics, a skeptic approach to dubious factual 
claims, and very importantly the practice of positive religious values that people from all walks of life can 
participate in. 

Given that the objectives are somewhat political, drawing the ideological line in concepts that cannot be 
resolved (ie Atheist/Agnostic/Deist debate) is detrimental to the groups objectives, it is better to define 
the organization around concepts that we all share.

2. But how can anyone believe that GOD is the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM)?

Blasphemy! why not?
Deists that participate in our Church have to be open minded, we believe that God, by definition omnipotent and
omnipresent, can present himsef in whatever form he wants us to perceive him by (if he ever has done so), and also, 
given the state that the world is in, he probably has a sense of humor.

3. Why the NEO in NeoPastafarian?

We expand the Pastarian credo, our church started in Costa Rica, a country that borders the caribean
sea and once had pirate infested waters (please check the document our-credo for more information). 
We also exalt the importance of having a congregation of like-minded people that positively contributes 
to society. You could argue that our values go beyond the pastafarian of having a good time and 
drinking beer (not that there is anything wrong with that, mind you).

4. Your beliefs sound suspiciously like a sect, are you a sect?

You jumped to this question and haven't been reading sequentially right?
If by a sect you mean a group of people that follow blindly a leader that provides them a prepackaged solution
to the interpretation of reality then no, we are not a sect. We believe that you cannot endorse the 
responsiblity of making sense of the world to a third party, we also belive that you should question 
everything and never accept any ideas that are contrary to reason.

5. Why OpenSource?

Simple, we want to put a license in our credo and documents so that everybody can copy our church, 
but we want to put limits on how the church is organized, nobody should profit comercially from 
this idea, and accounting of the church should be transparent and open. We openly promote for all
of our congregation to participate in the development of our values and traditions, the only 
requirement being that our church document the proposals and the proponents justify them
based on scientific evidence, reasonable conjecture, or just simply fun. Proposals become
experiments (ie. should we celebrate Yom Kippur? would it be healthy for us?) that the church documents
and accepts or rejects. If you know the organization of opensource development, this scheme is exactly
the same.

6. Why a religion, don't you believe that religions are bad?

Many things in the world religions are bad, some of our congregation followers are antitheists for this
reason, but many things are also good, and it is crucial to separate the good from the bad.

Christianity for example, is responsible for the Holy Inquisition and countless other atrocities, 
but it also revolutionarily planted the seed two thousand years ago for the separation of church and 
state by statements made in the gospels such as: "Give to Ceasar what belongs to Ceasar, and to God 
what belongs to God" or "My kingdom is not of this world".

Islam is considered by many as a religion that has stayed in the middle ages, yet
when it comes to stem cell research, or in vitro fertilization, they have no qualms, because Muslims
believe that the soul doesn't enter the body until after the baby is more that one month old.

We have to look closer at religions to separate good from bad. Religions are composed of the credo (dogma), 
values and traditions, aside from these some have philosophy and practice (ie Buddhism). When you analize
them it becomes evident that their problems come from their dogma, specifically how dogma make societies and
people make irrational decisions.

As NeoPastafarians, we are commited to exposing this irrationality, and promoting the positive
aspects of the religious framework: values and traditions, so long as they do not conflict with scientific
evidence and a humane ethical framework. To achieve this NeoPastafarians adopt the Pastafarian maxim that
credo or dogma can be ignored, and asume the rule that dogma is not a legitimate basis for political
argument, decisions, or action.

7. The good ideas in religion that you present in question 6 are there in spite of religion, not because of
religion, what is good intrinsically about religion then?

The human mind is not completely rational, the advertizing industry understands this, behavioral economists
understand this, and also religions understand this fact. This allows them to transmit their message, whatever
it may be, at many levels of human comprehension, from subliminal to musical, to poetic to logical. For 
hundreds of years religions have been perfecting this method of sending their message at many levels of
cognition, and have become very effective at it. We believe that humanist, scientific and secular values can also
be transmited this way, in fact, should also be transmited this way. Scientific reality is simply to complex
and too important to be only transmited in a dry reuters newsflash manner. So long as the fundamental reason
and logic for the beliefs are never hidden from the reciever, and he is always pointed in the direction of
questioning everything, there is no harm in providing the message at many levels of understanding.

Alain De Botton argues towards this point in his book "Religion for Atheists", Sam Harris, arguing in a
different directions makes a strong case for secular spirituality (sounds like an oxymoron, I know, 
but bear with me, his arguments are very good) centered on meditation. We as NeoPastafarians, inspired
by these works, consider of great value having a congregation of like minded individuals that are inspired
to create a better world based on a fantastic credo and secular and humane ethical values.

8. Whats the deal with "Computational" Church?

Part of this question is already answered in question 5. We also have a computational 
take on reality, please refer to the MumboJumbo document file for the philosophical mumbo jumbo. Many
of the followers of our congregation are computationally oriented, and we are also developing a computer
language based on Pirate speak called Monesvol just for the fun of it.

9. Do you really believe this, or is this a Joke?

NeoPastafarians are as strict as Pastafarians in the enforcement of their credo, that is, it is not 
required for someone to belive in it to become Pastafarian, but you can if you want to, because faith
in itself, not the object of faith, is the important component in a faith based system (for those
who are into faith and go for that thing).

Then again, although we do not emphasize the credo, we do state strongly that faith is irrational and must be 
contained. There is nothing wrong with beleiving that the Flying Spaquetti Monster created the world 10,000 
years ago and planted the evidence for evolution and the big bang just to test our faith, so long as your 
social and political decisions are consistent with the scientific evidence and you play along with the FSM joke 
(that the evidence he planted is true, that is). 

Being rational and acting according to evidence will not belittle your faith in the FSM, and he will not 
hold it against you, just remember that faith and dogma are personal, and should not be used for political 
decisions or social action. 

10. If someone really believes in the FSM why should he follow the scientific evidence then? 

Because faith is personal, open societies harbor many faiths, and decisions made in them should follow 
facts that can be agreed upon by all parties, scientific evidence is the only common ground that rational 
people with different belief systems have and the only way that they can reach accord and work together 
for a better society.

This is a very important value to a NeoPastafarian, we promote this first by example, we have our credo
but act in society according to scientific fact and a humanist ethic. And secondly by actively promoting
it as the right way to go for all. Different religions have achieved this to a higher or lesser degree.
Modern Judaism, for example, even though it has one of the most barbaric holy books, can be practiced in
a completely secular and humane way, simply by emphasizing tradition and values over dogma.

11. Are you mocking other religions (ie: Catholicism)?

We take some or our traditions from other religions, for example, we do communion with meatballs. This is
not out of mocking, but because we believe in taking what is good from other religions and adopting it,
many of our congregation come from a catholic background, and c'mon, you have to agree that communion 
with meatballs is definetly cool!

While it is not our intent to mock other religions, it is our intent to expose the absurdity of dogma, and in
the degree that religions depend on dogma, ours included, then in that degree we will be referring 
to them/us. 

12. So you are against religious dogma, but have your own credo, how so, isn't that contradictory?

A credo in and of itself is not the problem, it can morph into inofensive and picturesque mythology (think of Zeus),
the problem is the seriousness with which religions demand that people adopt their beliefs without evidence, 
and if not, the demand they pose on people to respect them.

To prevent this pastafarias explicitly state that it's dogma can be ignored, and
actively promote a light attitude towards their beliefs.

13. Why don't you show respect for other religions? you should expect respect if you do not provide it.

We don't expect it.

We believe strongly in the right of freedom of thought and beliefs, and this applies to all sorts of people
holding all sorts of religious beliefs, but this principle applies to PEOPLE: it is people need to be treated 
with respect, not ideas.

If you do not agree with the beliefs that a religion proposes, it is not respect what you provide when
refrain from criticism if you're compelled to, it's submission. Respect is not an action but a mental
state that cannot be requested or enforced. Submission on the other hand, is accepting, submitting,
or refraining from argument to something that you do not agree with. 

As NeoPastafarians we believe submission is a very negative value that harms both provider and receiver,
and openly challege it with our beliefs and actions, in this respect we completely agree with and recommend 
reading John Stewart Mill (http://www.bartleby.com/130/2.html).

Many religions that request respect are actually asking for submission, simply because by having 
belief systems that are not defensible by argument the only way that they can defend themselves from rational
criticism is by suppresing it. They know, consciously or not, that like the emperors new clothes, if people 
start asking questions they will suddenly realize that they stand naked in front of the crowd.

14. What are your core values then? Am I a NeoPastafarian?

If you got here, then you probably are! but in a nutshell here are some guidelines

a. Enjoy life
b. Openly promote the happiness of all sentient beings
c. Take action, do not be just an observer of your reality on issues that you hold dear
d. Do not take yourself too seriously, though
e. Have fun with the credo and the FSM (be outrageous, thats the whole point)
f. Respect everyones right to believe whatever they want, so long as it doesn't affect others.
g. Do not respect what they believe if you think it doesn't make sense, respect is for people,
   not ideas.
h. Openly challenge beliefs that you think are absurd, intolerant or discriminatory.
i. Do not tolerate the tolerance of intolerance (yes, you heard it right, no mistake in the previous phrase), 
   it is the sin that corrodes open societies from the inside.
j. Do not endorse your responsibility for undersanding the world to anyone, not even us, we just provide
   guidelines that we hope are useful, it is your responsibility to reason them and accept only what seems 
   logical to you.
